---
title: AFC South
date: 2024-08-13
ShowPostNavLinks: true
showHero: true
description: "AFC South."
tags: ["NFL", "AFC South", "Tennessee Titans", "Houston Texans", "Indianapolis Colts", "Jacksonville Jaguars", ] 
---
## "AFC South."
#### 08/13/2024 

    Team:                   Houston Texans          Indianapolis Colts
    Head Coach:             DeMeco Ryans (1)        Shane Steichen (1)
    Offensive Coordinator:  Bobby Slowik (1)        Jim Bob Cooter (1)
    Defensive Coordinator:  Matt Burke (1)          Gus Bradley (2)

    Team:                   Jacksonville Jaguars    Tennessee Titans     
    Head Coach:             Doug Pederson (2)       Brian Callahan (New)
    Offensive Coordinator:  Press Taylor (2)        Head Coach calls plays
    Defensive Coordinator:  Ryan Nielsen (New)      Dennard Wilson (New)
    
#### Houston Texans (1)
The 2023 Houston Texans finished with a respectable 10-7 record under head coach DeMeco Ryans, marking a notable improvement from previous seasons. The team’s performance was highlighted by C.J. Stroud, who displayed impressive numbers when not under pressure, ranking high in several key metrics. However, the Texans struggled with a run-heavy offensive approach, which limited Stroud's opportunities to capitalize on his effectiveness in passing situations. The defensive line, a major strength, contributed significantly, ranking first in yards allowed per carry and second in yards before contact. Despite these positives, the Texans faced challenges in converting their strong defensive performances into playoff success, highlighted by their disappointing end-of-season performance against the Colts.

Heading into the 2024 season, the Texans have been active in reshaping their roster, making several key additions through free agency and trades. They acquired Stefon Diggs from the Bills and Joe Mixon from the Bengals, aiming to bolster their offensive weaponry. The addition of Diggs, along with retaining key players like Dalton Schultz and Nico Collins, is expected to provide Stroud with a dynamic receiving corps and more support in the running game. The Texans also strengthened their defense by signing Danielle Hunter, Azeez Al-Shaair and Denico Autry. These moves are part of a broader strategy to maximize the value of Stroud’s rookie contract and compete more effectively.

In the draft, the Texans focused on adding depth and future potential with selections such as Kamari Lassiter, Blake Fisher and Calen Bullock. Lassiter, a promising cornerback from Georgia, is anticipated to provide immediate help in the secondary, especially with the departure of Steven Nelson and the addition of Jeff Okudah. Fisher is expected to bolster the offensive line and provide better protection for Stroud, while Bullock’s selection adds potential in the safety position. The Texans’ draft strategy reflects their commitment to building a balanced team with both immediate impact players and future stars.

Overall, the 2024 Texans appear to be in a position to capitalize on their recent investments. The offense is expected to be more explosive with the addition of Diggs and Mixon, complementing an already promising quarterback in Stroud. Defensively, the revamped front seven and improved secondary should address the weaknesses from the previous season. Aiming to build on their solid pressure rate and sack numbers. With a more balanced roster and a strategic focus on maximizing their current talent, the Texans are poised to make a stronger push for playoff contention and potentially challenge for the division title. Although, it'll be a brutal schedule for the Texans down the stretch.

#### Jacksonville Jaguars (2)
In the 2023 NFL season, the Jacksonville Jaguars, led by head coach Doug Pederson, finished with a 9-8 record, mirroring their performance from the previous year. Despite a promising start and the high expectations following their AFC South title in 2022, the Jaguars faced several challenges, including injuries to quarterback Trevor Lawrence and inconsistent performances. Lawrence’s year was marked by a regression in some key metrics, such as a drop in EPA per attempt and a less efficient red zone performance. The loss of key players like Calvin Ridley and Darious Williams, combined with ongoing issues in the running game and pass protection. That said, Brian Thomas Jr. is a real deal.

Looking ahead to the 2024 season, the Jaguars have made notable changes to their roster in an effort to address their weaknesses and improve their standing. The team made a splash in free agency by signing defensive tackle Arik Armstead and adding safety Darnell Savage Jr. These moves aim to bolster a defensive line that was middle-of-the-pack in pressure rate and sack production last year. The draft also brought promising additions, including Brian Thomas Jr., a wide receiver from LSU who is expected to help fill the void left by Ridley’s departure, and Maason Smith, a defensive tackle who could make an immediate impact.

Offensively, the Jaguars are counting on the continued development of Trevor Lawrence, who struggled with injuries and inconsistency last season. Despite these setbacks, Lawrence showed potential, and the team's adjustments could help him regain form. The wide receiver corps will see significant changes with the addition of Gabriel Davis and the rookie Brian Thomas Jr., who will complement Christian Kirk and Evan Engram. Although the departure of Ridley leaves a gap, these new additions provide Lawrence with a mix of experience and youthful talent, potentially stabilizing the passing game.

Defensively, the Jaguars are looking to enhance their front seven, which was underwhelming in terms of pressure and sack production last season. The signing of Arik Armstead and the drafting of Maason Smith are expected to provide more stability and pass-rushing prowess. On the edge, Josh Allen and Travon Walker remain pivotal, with Walker showing significant progress in his second year. The secondary, bolstered by the addition of Ronald Darby and draft pick Jarrian Jones, needs to address inconsistencies from last year, particularly from Tyson Campbell and the slot corner position. Overall, the Jaguars are aiming to return to playoff contention by leveraging their offseason acquisitions and hoping for a bounce-back performance from their key players.

#### Indianapolis Colts (3)
In the 2023 season, the Indianapolis Colts faced significant challenges, finishing with a record of 9-8 under the guidance of first-year head coach Shane Steichen. The team struggled with a difficult schedule, particularly in terms of run defenses and overall defensive quality. Jonathan Taylor, the star running back, missed a substantial portion of the season due to a combination of injury issues and a contract dispute. The quarterback position was also unstable; we only got to see Anthony Richardson play in four games for the Colts last season.

Looking ahead to 2024, the Colts are poised for a significant shift, driven by strategic roster changes and a new focus. The Colts have been active in free agency and the draft to address their weaknesses. They signed Raekwon Davis to bolster the defensive line. The draft brought in promising talents like Laiatu Latu, a first-round defensive end from UCLA, who is expected to make an immediate impact with his impressive pass-rush skills. Adonai Mitchell, selected in the second round, is projected to provide a deep threat and complement Richardson’s game, potentially boosting the Colts' aerial attack.

Anthony Richardson’s development will be crucial for the Colts’ success in 2024. Richardson’s athleticism and playmaking ability offer a high ceiling. The Colts have surrounded him with talent, including the addition of Adonai Mitchell and the extension of Michael Pittman Jr., who remains a key offensive weapon. Pittman’s consistent production, including 109 receptions for 1,152 yards in 2023, will be vital as Richardson matures. The team hopes that the improved receiving corps and a more stable running game, assuming Taylor remains healthy and productive, will help Richardson in his second year.

Defensively, the Colts have made notable upgrades to address past deficiencies. While the loss of players like Jacob Martin leaves gaps, the addition of Laiatu Latu and Raekwon Davis provides fresh energy and depth. DeForest Buckner remains a cornerstone of the defensive line and the Colts are hopeful that Davis can complement him effectively. The secondary remains a concern, with the team needing to solidify their cornerback positions. The development of young players like JuJu Brents, combined with the addition of new draft picks, will be essential for improving the defense. With these adjustments, the Colts aim to build on their potential and make a more competitive run in the 2024 season.

#### Tennessee Titans (4)
The 2023 Tennessee Titans experienced a challenging season, finishing with a 6-11 record. Injuries, key player losses and a struggle with consistency marked their campaign. The departure of veteran quarterback Ryan Tannehill and running back Derrick Henry—both to new teams—represented significant changes for the Titans. The Titans' offense struggled under rookie quarterback Will Levis, who saw a notable dip in performance compared to his college days. Levis' completion rate was the lowest among qualified quarterbacks, and the Titans' passing game was hindered by poor production from the receiving corps, which ranked near the bottom in several key statistical categories.

Looking ahead to the 2024 season, the Titans have made substantial changes to their roster and coaching staff in an attempt to improve. The addition of key free agents such as Chidobe Awuzie and L'Jarius Sneed should significantly enhance their secondary, addressing one of the team's major weaknesses from last season. The draft also brought notable additions, including JC Latham, a first-round pick expected to stabilize the offensive line, and T'Vondre Sweat, a second-round pick with the potential to bolster the defensive front. Despite these improvements, the Titans face a daunting schedule, projected as the sixth-hardest in the league, which poses a significant challenge for their playoff aspirations.

On the offensive side, the Titans are looking to revitalize their attack with the addition of Tony Pollard, who will share backfield duties with Tyjae Spears. Pollard's versatility and explosiveness should provide a much-needed boost to the running game, especially after Derrick Henry's departure. The offensive line is expected to be a key area of improvement. Latham's transition to left tackle could address the Titans' struggles in pass protection, where their left tackle play was among the worst in the league last season. The success of this offensive overhaul will largely depend on Will Levis' development and his ability to leverage new weapons, including potential impacts from rookie receiver Brian Thomas Jr.

Defensively, the Titans are focused on revamping their front seven after a lackluster performance in 2023. The addition of Sebastian Joseph-Day and T'Vondre Sweat aims to strengthen the defensive line, which was previously underperforming in terms of pressure and run defense. Jeffery Simmons remains a key figure, and his performance will be crucial in anchoring the line. At linebacker, Kenneth Murray's arrival is hoped to offset the loss of Azeez Al-Shaair, who was a significant contributor last season. The Titans' success in 2024 will depend on how well these new additions integrate with existing players and whether they can improve on a defense that struggled with pass coverage and overall efficiency.