---
title: AFC East
date: 2024-08-14
ShowPostNavLinks: true
showHero: true
description: "AFC East."
tags: ["NFL", "AFC East", "Buffalo Bills", "Miami Dolphins", "New England Patriots" , "New York Jets", ] 
---
## "AFC East"

#### 08/14/2024 

#### Miami Dolphins (1)
Miami Dolphins made significant strides under the guidance of head coach Mike McDaniel. Despite facing injury challenges, particularly with Tua Tagovailoa’s health. McDaniel’s adjustments from the previous year led to a notable improvement in their play action game and overall offensive efficiency. The Dolphins’ offense excelled on first downs and late downs, with significant year-over-year improvements in metrics such as air yards per attempt and expected points added per attempt. Their high-powered offense saw a successful season, though concerns about consistency and depth at the receiver position lingered.

The Dolphins’ defense in 2023 was robust, particularly in the pass rush, ranking fourth in pressure rate and third in sacks. However, the unit was not without its challenges. The departure of Christian Wilkins to the Raiders and injuries to key players like Bradley Chubb and Jaelan Phillips created gaps that the team struggled to fill. Despite these issues, the secondary performed well, bolstered by the presence of Jalen Ramsey and a strong cornerback duo with the addition of Kendall Fuller. The defense's run-stopping ability was compromised by Wilkins’ departure, with a noticeable increase in rushing yards allowed per attempt.

Looking ahead to the 2024 season, the Dolphins have made several adjustments to their roster and coaching staff. New defensive coordinator Anthony Weaver, formerly of the Baltimore Ravens, is expected to bring a fresh approach to the defense. The departure of key defensive players such as Wilkins and Emmanuel Ogbah has prompted the Dolphins to invest in new talent through the draft, with the selection of Chop Robinson, a promising pass rusher and Patrick Paul, an offensive tackle. The team's focus remains on bolstering the defensive front and improving depth, particularly in the wake of significant injuries to pass rushers.

The 2024 Dolphins' schedule will test their ability to integrate new players and navigate ongoing injury concerns. McDaniel and his coaching staff will need to leverage their strategic acumen to maintain the offensive efficiency and address defensive vulnerabilities. With the return of key defensive players and the integration of new talent, the Dolphins are poised to build on their 2023 performance. The emphasis will be on maintaining Tagovailoa's health, capitalizing on their high-octane offense and ensuring that the defense can compensate for the losses incurred in the offseason.

#### New York Jets (2)
In the 2023 NFL season, the New York Jets faced a year of mixed results despite showing resilience and strong defensive performances. Aaron Rodgers was diagnosed with an Achilles tendon rupture and was later placed on IR.They managed to secure a 7-10 record, the same as in 2022. The Jets' defense was a standout feature, ranking seventh in points allowed per game and fifth in pressure rate, thanks to key contributors like Quinnen Williams and a formidable secondary led by Sauce Gardner. However, the offense struggled significantly, hindered by Wilson, backup quarterback and injuries on the offensive line. The team’s inability to generate consistent offensive production, averaging just 21.3 points per game, was a major factor in their underwhelming season.

Heading into the 2024 season, the Jets have made substantial changes in their coaching staff and roster to address their previous shortcomings. Robert Saleh returns for his third year as head coach, while Nathaniel Hackett and Jeff Ulbrich join as the new offensive and defensive coordinators, respectively. Jets' offense is expected to improve dramatically, especially with new offensive line additions like Morgan Moses, John Simpson and Tyron Smith. The selection of Olu Fashanu in the first round of the draft further strengthens the line, although he may not see immediate action.

The Jets' 2024 draft also focused on bolstering their receiving corps and offensive line. The addition of Malachi Corley in the third round, alongside the high-profile acquisition of Mike Williams, aims to provide more reliable targets for Rodgers. Breece Hall, who had a strong season in 2023 despite limited offensive line support, will benefit from improved blocking, which should help him build on his impressive performance. The Jets' offensive line struggles were evident last season, with a rotation that was frequently disrupted due to injuries. The influx of new talent should alleviate some of these issues and offer better protection for Rodgers.

On defense, the Jets remain a formidable force despite losing key players like Bryce Huff and Carl Lawson. The acquisition of Haason Reddick via trade and the draft selections of Jermaine Johnson and Will McDonald bolster their pass-rushing capabilities. The linebacker duo of C.J. Mosley and Quincy Williams continues to be a strong point, with both players logging significant snaps and solid performances. The secondary, led by Sauce Gardner and D.J. Reed, remains one of the best in the league. As the Jets navigate a challenging schedule in 2024, their success will hinge on the effective integration of their new offensive assets and maintaining their defensive excellence.

#### Buffalo Bills (3)
The Bills are coming into the season with the second-largest dead cap hit in the NFL at $61.2 million, following the departure of key players like Tre’Davious White, Dane Jackson, Jordan Poyer and Micah Hyde. They face a challenging schedule with top offenses and quarterbacks including Patrick Mahomes and Lamar Jackson.

Josh Allen remains the key player driving the offense. Despite a dip in production last season, he led the league in EPA per dropback and maintained a strong success rate. The addition of Keon Coleman and a larger role for Dalton Kincaid should bolster the offense. James Cook is expected to continue his development, having shown significant potential last season.

On defense, the return of DaQuan Jones and the addition of Austin Johnson and DeShawn Williams are expected to strengthen the line. However, the loss of Matt Milano and the recovery of players like Von Miller will be crucial for the unit’s performance. The Bills are likely to rely heavily on their defensive front and the contributions of rookies like Cole Bishop.

Buffalo’s offensive success will likely depend on the contributions of Dawson Knox and Dalton Kincaid. The team drafted Keon Coleman in the first round and is expected to use more multi-tight end formations. While the quarterback position remains a strength, with Josh Allen rated as the third-best quarterback, other positions face uncertainty. James Cook showed promise last season, but the Bills’ run defense struggled. On the defensive side, the return of DaQuan Jones and the additions of Austin Johnson and DeShawn Williams should bolster the line, though the loss of Matt Milano is a significant blow. Second-round rookie Cole Bishop may step into a starting role and the defense will need to adapt to overcome these challenges. I feel like it's time for Miami AND New York to step up to the plate and hit. Therefore, Bills are moving down to third in the division.  

#### New England Patriots (4)
In the 2023 season, the New England Patriots struggled significantly, finishing with a disappointing record, 4-13. The team’s woes were highlighted by offensive inefficiencies and defensive shortcomings, resulting in the end of Bill Belichick's tenure as head coach. The Patriots' offense was marred by inconsistent quarterback play and a lack of dynamic playmakers, with Mac Jones failing to live up to expectations and ultimately being traded to the Jaguars. Defensively, the team was undermined by injuries and inconsistent pass rushing, which contributed to their mediocre overall performance. Key losses, including the departure of cornerback J.C. Jackson and wide receiver DeVante Parker, further exacerbated their struggles.

As the 2024 season approaches, the Patriots are undergoing significant changes, including a complete overhaul of their coaching staff. Jerod Mayo, a former linebacker for the Patriots, takes over as head coach. While Alex Van Pelt joins as the new offensive coordinator. This transition brings renewed hope, but also uncertainty. Van Pelt’s previous experience as a coordinator was limited, as he only filled in for Kevin Stefanski during absences. The Patriots have also brought in DeMarcus Covington as the new defensive coordinator, aiming to revitalize their defensive scheme. With Belichick's departure, the team is in a state of flux, needing to quickly adapt to new leadership and strategies.

The Patriots' 2024 draft was focused on addressing key needs, with the team selecting quarterback Drake Maye with the third overall pick. Maye, who comes from North Carolina, faces a challenging transition, working with a first-time head coach and an offensive coordinator with limited play-calling experience. The Patriots also added wide receiver Ja'Lynn Polk and offensive tackle Caedan Wallace, aiming to improve the roster around their rookie quarterback. The team's offensive line remains a concern, especially after losing Trent Brown and Riley Reiff. Maye will need significant support to overcome these hurdles, including better receiving options and improved protection.

Looking ahead, the 2024 season poses considerable challenges for the Patriots. They face one of the toughest schedules in the league, which, combined with the team's recent struggles and roster changes, sets the stage for a difficult year. Rhamondre Stevenson, coming off an injury-plagued season, will be a crucial part of the offense, supported by free-agent addition Antonio Gibson. Defensively, the Patriots will rely on key players like Christian Barmore and Matthew Judon, who must stay healthy and effective. The secondary, featuring talents like Jonathan Jones and the returning Christian Gonzalez, needs to perform at a high level to compensate for the team’s offensive uncertainties. Overall, the Patriots are in a rebuilding phase, with their success in 2024 heavily dependent on how quickly their new systems and personnel gel.

